Previously on Reign...
Mary of Scots' closest friend,
her lady Lola, has agreed
to be your hostage,
in exchange
for her family's release.
I'm pregnant.
With your child.
We must marry.
I am married,
Elizabeth.
Then get a divorce.
We talked about
this option.
Amy Dudley is dead.
Rumors are already spreading
that Dudley
murdered his wife.
We cannot be seen together.
You must help me
to evade the gallows.
What of our child?
Are you sure? Our future...
Nothing is certain
but my feelings for you.
I'm marrying you off
to Duke Boinel,
a wealthy noble who will
supply France with the gold
she so desperately needs
in return for your hand.
I was married once
to a girl I loved.
She died in childbirth.
And now Elizabeth has
your little girl, doesn't she?
She's using
your daughter
to ensure that you
sabotage my alliances.
¶ ¶
(clock chimes)
(door creaks)
Good morning,
Your Majesty.
May I come fetch your linens?
As you will.
¶ ¶
Will you require anything
for your monthly pains,
Your Grace?
No.
I'll be all right.
But tensions on the
Scottish border have been high
for years,
Your Majesty.
If your intention
is to wait until that changes
to deem whether it's safe
to free my father and brothers,
they may never
be released,
and I may never get to leave.
Or is that,
in fact, the plan?
The plan is for us to
get to know one another,
my dear Lady Lola.
A kind of personal diplomacy,
if you will.
So that, in time, you
may report to my cousin
I am not the monster
she may think I am.
I would like to report that,
Your Majesty,
and that you are a woman
of your word.
But you suspect I am not.
You've been treated
as an honored guest
since your arrival.
ELIZABETH:
I have enough
Englishmen judging me
without adding
a high-minded foreigner
to the list.
You will return
to your chambers
until I'm ready to
discuss the matter again.
You may go.
¶ ¶
(bell tolls)
MARY:
King Charles.
I've been looking for you.
Do you have a moment?
I'm waiting to talk
to my regent, Narcisse.
How can I help you?
It would mean a great deal
if I could keep
hosting suitors here.
I would make every effort
to ensure France benefits
from any new alliance
Scotland makes.
Beware of needy queens
asking for favors, Majesty.
I'm not asking for myself.
Scotland is an ally of France.
Alliances generally
benefit both countries.
If you are talking about
the costs of the war...
Exorbitant costs,
in blood and treasure,
borne by France.
Which is what King Charles
invited me here to discuss--
French business.
Majesty,
shall we?
Yes. Yes.
There's something
you need to see.
It's from Lola.
Your brother's Scottish war
left us with crushing debts.
And if we raise taxes?
Oh, that would make us both
very unpopular
just as we are starting
our time in power.
No, our options are few.
Especially as you have
only so many sisters
to marry off to suitors
willing to pay so richly.
About that.
My sister and mother are
dead set against the marriage.
I know your mother
has made promises, Majesty,
but take my word--
Claude will be lucky
to have Duke Boinel
as her husband.
Well...
even if he is a bit her senior.
But is he a good man?
Our wives were once friends,
and they spoke
very candidly
with each other.
She said he always treated her
with the greatest
of kindness and respect.
And when she died,
along with my wife,
in one of the summer plagues,
she left him one of
the largest estates in France.
He is as good as his gold,
which we happen
to need very much.
I understand why
you're angry, Mary,
but now may not
be the best time
to confront the
English ambassador.
You read Lola's letter.
I'm not leaving her stranded
in England indefinitely.
And I don't think
there is a good time
to accuse the English queen
of imprisoning one
of my best friends.
Well, that's what I'm
trying to tell you.
Shh.
Juliet, what is it?
They're arguing.
LEITH: A plan.
A plan for what?
To have me live here?
LEITH:
To see your daughter.
Stay here in France--
for how much longer?
I see why you say
it's not the best time
to confront him,
but what choice do I have?
I will not stand by
and do nothing
to defend my few
remaining friends.
Mary, there was
something else
in those letters of Gideon's
we intercepted.
Have you managed
to break the code?
It took time,
but this morning,
we finally managed
to rebuild their cipher.
What we found in those
letters may upset you,
but if used properly,
it could change the whole game.
What is it?
SERVANT:
Your Grace.
Lord Narcisse
has requested
you join him
in the great hall.
Of course.
Now he suddenly wants to see me?
Stop saying you have
no choice, Charles.
You're the king.
That's right,
I'm the king.
I'm a royal, and none of us
marry for love.
It's a miracle
Francis loved his wife,
but that doesn't mean
any of us will.
So, that's it?
I'm to be sold off like a mule,
forced to
live far away
with some fossil
I don't even know?
Narcisse swears
the duke is a good man.
As good as his gold,
which I'm sorry to say
we need very much.
Those are Narcisse's
words all right.
I've heard
them myself.
Claude, I'm sorry.
I've made my
decision.
(shrieks)
Mary, what are you doing here?
I was wondering
that myself.
Narcisse sent word, but...
I wanted you all here
to answer a simple question.
Where is the gold
that Duke Boinel paid
to marry Claude?
What? Someone's stolen it?
(scoffs)
Are you accusing
my mother of this?
NARCISSE: Well, we all know
that she opposed the marriage,
and she would love nothing more
than to see my regency fail.
And what better way to do that
than starve the kingdom of funds
when we need them
the most?
Mother, is there
any truth to this?
I oppose Claude's marriage
to Narcisse's friend, the duke,
absolutely, and the rest
is amateur fiction.
Amateur is whoever you paid
to commit the crime.
They took the gold right after
Boinel signed it over to me.
That means the deal
is done.
The marriage will go ahead
as scheduled.
And when I find the
gold-- which I will--
your plan will have
utterly failed.
Is it so unthinkable
a crime might take place
in this castle
that I had no hand in?
Hear me, Mother, if there
is one shred of evidence
that you stole that gold,
you'll be punished severely.
The same goes for
you, as well.
Me?
You two have been as thick
as thieves lately.
MARY: Do you still
hold it against me
that I defended her against
a false accusation of murder?
You have both been warned.
Look at my son.
The king is
following his regent
like an acolyte
follows his master.
I'm losing him, Mary,
to a man who cannot be trusted
with Charles's welfare
or this family's.
(grunting)
Ambassador Gideon.
You look like a man
working out his frustrations.
Perhaps I should
take a swing,
as we are both frustrated
with the same queen.
Don't know what you mean.
Well, first Elizabeth holds
your daughter hostage,
and then she keeps
changing the price
on the little girl's freedom.
Do you remember
how we found
your daughter Agatha's
letters to you?
We found other
letters as well.
Of course you did.
That's why we change ciphers
routinely.
My cryptographers finally
deciphered the letters.
Including several from
Elizabeth to you.
Ordering you to seduce me.
Your cryptographers
are breathing
too much of their own ink.
They're imagining things.
And letters from her
to your aide, Jeffrey,
ordering him
to watch her every move.
I can show you,
if you need proof,
but I don't think
you do.
If Elizabeth had to
ransom your daughter
to guarantee
that you would obey her,
why would she trust you
without supervision?
Let it go, Mary.
(grunting)
You are angry now
because you know
that your mission
is doomed to fail.
Why would I let you seduce me
when I know the truth?
Elizabeth will keep
withholding your daughter.
That's enough.
If you're finished.
Unless I decide
to let you seduce me.
Because it gets us both
what we want.
What are you talking about?
Jeffrey's letters say
that he is returning
to England soon.
Let him bring news
to Elizabeth that I am
the lonely, brokenhearted queen
she thinks I am
and that you have seduced me.
Convince her
that you control me,
and you'll have something
to bargain with,
to force her
to let you see Agatha.
You said this would give us both
what we want.
What does it give you?
You're not the only one
Elizabeth has broken
promises to.
I have few enough weapons
at my disposal.
I plan to use this one
to ensure Elizabeth
keeps her promise to me.
Tomorrow? Already?
Why is it happening so fast?
They know I don't want to marry.
That's why they've chosen to
have a small, private ceremony--
so I don't embarrass the
family with my objections.
I'm so sorry.
This shouldn't be happening.
You should be marrying
someone who knows you,
someone who loves you.
Someone like me.
To hear you say that,
to hear it now...
DUDLEY: I brought you
more pigs' blood.
Don't worry, nobody
saw me come in.
I don't know how much longer
I can keep up this charade.
My pregnancy
isn't showing yet,
but it will.
I've sent letters to suitors
around the continent,
but it may take weeks for them
to consider and respond,
and by then,
it might be too late.
I'll be forced to admit
to my future husband
I'm already carrying
someone else's child.
I keep asking myself
if there's any chance
for you to be cleared,
exonerated beyond
any doubt of a role
in your wife's death.
It will never happen, Elizabeth.
I'm being brought
before a tribunal--
a tribunal stacked with nobles
who whisper the same thing
that the people do:
that our rumored love for
each other killed my wife.
If I hang,
which I probably will,
then maybe I deserve it.
Because the truth is that
I did wish my wife dead.
And I would have killed for you.
For our child.
I have to go.
There are guards waiting for me.
(door opens, shuts)
(dog barks, horse whinnies)
(men laughing)
Steady, Percy.
MAN:
Look at you!
(laughing)
Ooh!
Whoa!
You see, now people will think
we've been drinking.
(laughter)
MARTIN:
Well, now.
Does the owner always
pour drinks like a barmaid?
It's good to see you.
Martin.
I had no idea
you'd come ashore.
Come here, Greer.
Give us a kiss.
Whoa.
Wait a minute.
You're pregnant.
Shh.
No one knows.
The child is mine?
Were you planning
to tell me this?
How?
By writing you a letter?
What address would I use? "The
middle of the Mediterranean"?
I could help you with this.
Martin, that's very kind,
but I've already arranged
to give the child
to a loving family.
You don't want it?
Of course I want it.
But I also want...
I want what's best
for the child.
And you think that's best?
Better than growing up
the bastard child
of a pirate and a
peddler of whores.
You think we would be
such terrible parents?
How can you
be a parent?
You don't even
live here.
You don't
live anywhere.
I can send gold.
And I can visit.
Really?
How often?
Twice a year, perhaps?
Maybe more?
It's an honest offer.
You do what you want,
but make me one promise:
Choose because of
what you think,
not what others might.
(bells tolling)
CARDINAL:
For richer and for poorer,
in sickness and in health,
until death do us part.
Princess Claude,
I need you to
repeat after me.
I'm sorry.
I wasn't listening.
Oh, dear Lord.
Cardinal Lauren, perhaps
you could abbreviate
the proceedings?
This is a holy
covenant between...
I do.
I, Claude de Valois,
take Duke Boinel as my husband.
That will do, Cardinal.
You have declared your consent
before the Church.
What God has joined,
let no man divide.
We should arrive at
my estate before nightfall.
It's quite beautiful
in the twilight hours.
I think you'll be
very happy there.
I'm sure it's lovely.
¶ ¶
(indistinct conversations)
You're kind to keep
feeding me beer,
although alcohol
can't fix this.
But it might help you forget.
Now that she's married.
It's not Claude
I need to forget.
I need to forget an idea.
A ridiculous,
childish idea
that I could love someone,
they could love me,
and nothing else mattered.
Don't let go of that idea.
Sons of goatherds don't get
to be with princesses.
But look how far you've come.
You got out of the kitchens.
You rose up to the kingsguard,
and you'll go higher still.
You used to be such a realist.
What happened to you?
I suppose
I've come to believe that...
I need to believe
that who we are matters more
than our station.
Well, I've come around
to your old way
of thinking,
because it was right, Greer.
You are who you're born to.
You'll never be more than
what people say that you are.
You can pretend otherwise,
but the world
won't pretend with you.
¶ Say to me ¶
¶ I am yours ¶
¶ I am yours. ¶
Mm, we have to hurry.
Juliet is signaling.
Jeffrey is in
position to watch
our secret rendezvous.
Has he already seen your
love letters to me?
He has read them.
But this is only
going to work
if he sees us together.
Now hurry.
(gasps)
Where's Jeffrey?
MARY:
Well, don't look.
We don't want
him to realize
that you know he's there.
Now sit.
We're enjoying a meal together.
Shouldn't you,
perhaps, be smiling?
You're supposed to be
enchanted by my company.
I think I'm doing pretty well
for a queen who used
to rule two realms and is
now barely holding onto one.
Huh.
A queen who
is reduced
to playacting
for someone else's servant
to convince him that
she's lost her foolish heart
to a spy and a fraud.
If only for Jeffrey
but also for you,
Mary, sit down
and breathe.
It's going
to be all right.
I'll get my daughter,
and Lola will be released.
If not this way,
we'll find another.
I do want to believe you.
But so many things have been
going wrong lately.
For me,
for my country...
I just don't know if
I trust my own fate anymore.
I don't know...
(gasps)
(thunder rumbles)
(sighs)
(chuckles)
You have to admit,
your fate has a sense of humor.
(sighs loudly)
We have to
get inside.
Right.
Ugh.
Bring the wine!
Ah... Uh-huh.
We have to get to a window.
He'll be able
to see us from there.
We should get
to the kiss quickly
before the building
collapses
under the weight
of my misfortune.
Shall we sit
at this window seat?
Yes, but you've got to be
in the right position...
Mary!
Is this yours?
No, you wouldn't have told me
to sit here if so.
Do you know who...?
Do you think that was
enough to convince him?
Um...
No.
Maybe... more.
More. Um...
Less impulsive...
Mmm.
...more deliberate.
I will instigate
to show that I've
fallen for you.
Um...
Uh...
well done.
All right.
Elizabeth will hear of this,
and she will know
it was a success.
You've seduced me,
you've won my heart.
And, uh...
well, then.
Oh, as if I don't have
enough problems, Catherine,
you give me
the duke's stolen gold.
(thunder rumbles)
My wife's personal affects can
be unpacked at a later time.
Do you still
have nothing
to say to your husband?
Sorry.
It's been a long day for me.
For you?
You forced me to stand
at the altar while you grieved.
It was appalling.
Your family was
right to hide you.
You're an embarrassment.
I'm... I'm sorry.
I... I wasn't trying
to make you uncomfortable.
You humiliated me.
And to think
I paid dearly for this.
A wife who cost
as much as you
should be better behaved.
You will apologize.
Are you serious?
How dare you?!
It's bad enough
you're old and dull,
but you're a wife-beater, too?
Have you any idea how lucky
you are to be married to me?
This is not how you treat
the royal blood of France!
(gasping for air)
I'm a princess!
MARY:
Set that down anywhere,
Timothy.
Thank you, Timothy.
You may go.
Clearly, you're not
surprised to see this gold.
Do you have any idea
what this could have done to me?
Catherine,
you know
that I am in a weak
position politically,
already unwelcome
at Narcisse's court...
I know and I'm sorry.
It's not just my comfort
that's at stake here!
As long as I am at French court,
I am seen as an
ally of France.
That and the Pope's support
are all I have left
to fend off Elizabeth
and to fight the rebels who are
trying to snatch my crown!
The rebels that I am fighting
have not only stolen my crown,
they're starting
to pick off my children.
Charles has been
seduced by Narcisse
and Claude has been married off.
Is it not possible that Narcisse
is just trying to do his job?
Do you honestly think that,
having held power,
that Narcisse and his friends
will surrender it willingly
when my son
comes of age?
Make no mistake:
a movement will rise
to make Narcisse king,
and their first task
will be to cut off the heads
of every last Valois child.
So to safeguard
your children's lives,
you gambled mine.
I tried and I failed
to stop Claude's marriage
the only way I could.
I knew that Narcisse
would look to me first
for the gold.
When I needed
a place to hide it,
your chambers were the closest
I could visit
without arousing suspicion.
Well, thank you,
for the truth at last.
You now have your gold,
and whatever you plan
to do with it...
I...
...which I don't
want to know--
I hope your reasons are good.
(goat bleats, chickens cluck)
(indistinct conversations)
(laughter)
Ellen.
Sister.
So good to see you.
My husband,
Lord Thomas Campbell.
Good to finally
meet you.
I thought you were
further along.
I've made mine too big, and-and
the silly rags keep falling out.
No, no, it's
perfect.
Let's sit down.
You'll live in
a nearby estate
that I've rented
under Thomas' name.
If you make a few
appearances at French court,
show off your
pregnancy,
no one should suspect the
child is mine and not yours.
But where will you be
while your belly grows?
Here, where I can hide
if I need to.
THOMAS:
This estate you've rented.
Is it befitting a family
of our good name?
It belonged to a wealthy earl.
You'll be quite comfortable.
Why don't you sample some
of Greer's ale, Thomas?
Sorry about Thomas.
After we lost the money
for our dowries
that your husband had promised,
Father was happy to marry
us off to anyone with titles.
Titled men have
such ridiculous pride,
even when they haven't got
a penny to their names.
Thomas doesn't understand
why we can't raise
the child in Scotland.
I want the child
growing up close to me.
He or she will believe that
you are its mother, but...
Won't that be painful for you?
Not as painful
as never seeing it.
Mmm.
What is it?
What's wrong?
I suppose we feel...
Here you are, about to lie
to your friends at court
to hide your pregnancy
and hide your motherhood.
It feels as if we're all paying
for your mistakes.
My mistakes?
I lost everything.
And, yes, I got pregnant
in a moment of loneliness
and thoughtlessness,
for which I am paying.
I'm paying your expenses.
I'm giving you the child you
weren't able to have on your own
whilst you live in a house
your husband can't afford.
And here's what I and this
child's father expect to get:
our child raised the way you
and I should have been raised.
The world may continue to
care who one's parents are,
but our child will not.
They will grow up knowing
there are more important
things in this life.
And if this child doesn't
learn that from you,
I will be there to make damn
sure they learn it from me.
Shopping for toys for
your daughter, are you?
Have you heard
something from England?
Well, the queen
is happy, yes.
Seems Jeffrey reported
our... evening together.
Oh.
Now Elizabeth's
considering dates
when I might be allowed
to travel home.
Gideon, that's wonderful
news, isn't it?
You'll be able to see
your daughter again.
And you can help
my friend, Lady Lola.
"Considering,"
Elizabeth says.
I "might be" allowed
to come home?
These are the same vague
promises I've heard for years.
So she acts as though
she's keeping her promise
just by admitting
she made one.
Mmm.
How many lies and deceits does
she expect people to accept?
In my case, not many more.
I'm at my limit, Mary.
If I don't see my daughter soon,
I feel I may lose my mind.
¶ ¶
(door opens)
WILLIAM: Majesty.
Have you any news?
Have we heard from Sweden?
From Austria?
It's not what you hoped.
Suddenly no one wants
to marry me.
People are suspicious, Majesty,
after so many spurned proposals.
Perhaps if
you told me
why marriage was
suddenly so important.
The queen changed
her mind.
How about that?
But if I am
to explain
your policy shift
to prospective suitors...
Perhaps I realized
you were right all along.
And for the future,
please tell Dudley
he cannot come
and go undetected,
as he seems
to think.
If I thought I'd see him
again, I would tell him.
Now leave me.
(door closes)
¶ ¶
Narcisse.
What are you doing here?
I hope you don't mind,
but we took the liberty
of searching your chambers,
which are our chambers
after all,
loaned to you as our guest.
Did you find
what you were looking for?
NARCISSE: You don't
know the hand, perhaps,
but you do know
the man it belonged to.
Timothy, castle servant who
tended to you from time to time.
Timothy tried to spend
a gold coin in the village.
My men had told the merchants
to look out for such coins,
ones bearing
Duke Boinel's markings.
So this servant stole
the duke's gold?
"This servant" that you
pretend not to know
was on his way to me
for questioning.
Is that when you
cut off his hand?
No, his hand was cut off
by the village magistrates
for stealing Crown property.
But that was nothing compared
to the punishment he feared
if he told me
the truth.
On his way to me for
questioning, he broke free,
threw himself off the castle
walls, killing himself,
because he knew that if he said
one word under torture,
Catherine de Medici
would kill not only him
but she would kill
his entire family.
He knew it.
And you know it, too.
Lord Narcisse, you claim
that the way he died proves
that Catherine had
a part in the crime.
And somehow
I'm involved as well.
Don't play coy with me,
Mary, I'm warning you.
I can't help you because
I don't know where the gold is.
I had no part
in stealing it.
Now please leave my chambers.
No, I think it will
be you who leaves.
What?
I don't trust you, Mary, Queen
of Scots, and I never will,
and I will not have you lurking
around French court any longer.
You are hereby banished
from this castle,
to be gone by the
end of the week.
No.
My nation has
turned against me.
I have
nowhere to go.
You can't.
Charles won't
allow it.
Oh, once he hears the
case I have to make,
I'm quite sure he will.
¶ ¶
(door opens and closes)
We got word that Claude
ran away from Boinel.
My men picked her up
on the road to Paris.
You're not going to like
what you see, Charles.
Our sister has not
been treated well.
CHARLES:
Why didn't you come to me?
Why did you run to Paris?
I didn't know
what you would say.
Because you couldn't
trust me to help?
I'm so sorry,
Claude.
This is all my fault.
I blamed you
for forcing the marriage.
This... you couldn't have known.
It's Narcisse.
This is all
Narcisse.
Either he didn't know
who the duke really was,
or he did
and lied.
Mother warned me Narcisse
would put his own interests
ahead of this family's.
She was right.
Please don't make me go
back to that man.
Did you consummate
the marriage?
Good God, no.
I'll fix this.
I promise.
King Charles has annulled
his sister's marriage
at the urging
of the queen mother.
Catherine's act of defiance
cannot be tolerated.
I'm told a council
meeting was called,
but no one informed
or invited me. Why?
It's a meeting to discuss
your family, Majesty.
I felt it best that
we formulate recommendations
before
involving you.
Good.
I want to discuss
my family as well
and what you have done to it.
Majesty, with all due respect...
Why don't you show
my son the respect
of allowing him to finish
whatever it is he has to say?
I may not be
old enough to rule,
but I am old enough
to know who I can trust.
Lord Narcisse put
my sister at risk,
and I cannot forgive this.
Majesty, please, you
can't judge Lord Narcisse
on a single
failed union.
Bad marriages happen every day.
Not to my sister.
Not while I'm king.
I've known Narcisse long enough
to see I can't trust him
to safeguard my family.
That is why
I'm here today,
to ask you
to put in his place
a regent who will.
Because she is part
of my family.
My mother, Catherine de Medici.
(chattering)
But, Majesty, it's not your
place to decide who is regent.
No, it's yours.
Which is why I remind you that,
while you hold your power today,
in a few short years, I will
have come into all my power.
And I will remember
what happened today,
who showed me their friendship,
who didn't.
My son has caught me
off guard with this, truly.
And I can see that there is a
deep fondness for Lord Narcisse.
Know that I
will honor this.
I will allow him to stay
on the privy council.
I still don't like it.
It's a coup
by another name.
Charles.
A coup by the king,
do you mean?
So shall we vote
or have more discussion?
Personally,
I'm in the mood for a vote.
GREER: No countries
have offered so far,
but I've found various French
nobles who might take you in.
They'll have to have
large enough courts
that I can entertain
any potential suitors
with appropriate ceremony.
I have to make a powerful
marriage alliance.
Mary!
You won't believe it.
Charles...
Oh.
...he did it.
I should leave
you alone.
Uh, Catherine, what's going on?
I am regent.
How?
(laughs) Charles,
he was incensed
by what happened to Claude.
He lost all faith in Narcisse.
This was his decision.
I just...
I stood there.
(laughs)
I let the crown settle
on my head.
That's wonderful, Catherine.
Oh, no,
it's much better than that.
We're safe again, all of us.
My children,
my family's rule,
and you, my dear friend.
You have been there for me
time and again,
and I will be there for you.
It's a bit late
for that, I think.
Oh, don't be ridiculous.
No, unpack these trunks.
You think I'm gonna let
Narcisse banish you?
Don't you have something
to drink in here?
Where is it?
We have to celebrate.
Now that we're all safe,
can you tell me what happened
to all that gold?
(sighs)
You know what, my dear,
you were right the first time.
(sighs)
It's better you don't know.
ELIZABETH:
I should start
by apologizing for my...
abruptness the day we met.
These are complicated times.
But if this kind
of personal diplomacy
can bring an understanding
between our two countries,
is it not worth trying?
I would like to see it succeed
as much as you, Majesty.
Possibly more so.
Because of your captured family,
of course.
Royals have such
a strange sense
of family, don't you think?
My father cut off
my mother's head.
My sister jailed me
as a threat to her rule.
And you,
you have a king's bastard
for a son.
If you mean to impugn
my character,
do not bring my son into it.
He is the joy of my life.
Even with all the upheaval
he brought?
You never regretted
your pregnancy?
Not from the moment he was born.
(chuckles)
(grunts)
(panting)
Are you all right?
I-I could send for help.
(sighs) No.
I'm fine.
(sighs)
(night birds calling)
(twig snaps)
CATHERINE:
Wait.
We're in the wrong place.
A thousand apologies.
No, you're in the right place.
I know how you feel
about loose ends, Your Grace.
Don't be absurd.
I've come to pay you,
as promised.
And why do you need
all the archers
behind those trees?
For my own security.
A regent can face
many threats,
from soldiers to assassins
as well as loose ends.
You should advise them
not to loose.
We don't want a bloodbath.
All I want
is my gold.
Well, your gold, in truth.
You did earn it.
You played your part well.
Though you might not
have hit my daughter so hard.
I've never struck
a woman before.
But you said it needed
to be done
to enrage your son and turn him
firmly against Narcisse.
I suppose I don't need
to reproach you.
Claude did that well enough
on her own.
Oh, don't forget
the rest of our deal.
I want those vineyards
as part of my duchy.
You shall have them.
Hear this, Catherine--
I swear on my life
that I shall stay far away
and stay silent.
You'll have no reason
to send your assassins.
Very well.
On your life.
ELIZABETH:
What are you doing here?
We can't be seen together.
I had to come,
as soon as I heard
you'd been poisoned.
Are you all right?
I don't know.
It was awful.
The pain.
When I realized
I was having a miscarriage,
I had to find someplace private
to let it come out.
Where no one
would find me
or see the blood.
And then afterwards,
I had to clean it...
(crying)
I'm so sorry.
Someone did this to me.
Out of hate.
Someone emboldened,
knowing the entire country
felt the same way.
But William tells me
that the tribunal ended
in a deadlock.
And that you're free.
(sighs)
(sighs) There was enough doubt
that they didn't put me
to trial.
It's not quite the same
as being innocent.
What kind of doubt?
Doubt about Amy.
Her odd behavior.
Others saw it.
There were no witnesses.
Then you are free.
But I'm not free to be with you.
They still hate us,
Elizabeth.
Not just the nobles,
but the people, your people.
They blame me for tarnishing
your reputation.
Linking you to Amy's death.
You have to move past this.
You have to make them
forget it.
And you can't do that with me
by your side.
Amy is dead.
Our baby is gone.
And to what end?
We are lost to each other.
It is a fact I will grieve
for the rest of my life.
(sighs)
As will I.
I'll always love you,
Elizabeth.
Always.
Claude.
My Lord,
oh, you look awful.
Where have you been?
I'm sorry.
I-I should've been here sooner.
I should've been there.
I should've protected you.
Leith, you idiot.
You did protect me.
You think I look awful,
you should see Boinel.
I gave as good as I got.
Three quick jabs to the stomach,
one to the throat.
Just like you showed me.
Did he drop?
Like a drunk uncle.
So...
I'm free,
unwed,
and home again.
Until when?
Charles swore
he would never force me
to marry after this.
It can be like this
for as long as we want.
No.
There's only one true way
to protect you from having
to marry someone you don't want.
Marry me.
But, Leith, how?
I will rise in station
until I am a candidate
fit to marry a princess.
I don't know how I'll do it,
but I will.
I believe you, my love.
I believe you will.
(gasps)
(grunts)
Is that all right?
Yes.
Yes, better still.
(sighs)
Your physician says
you can travel soon.
You'll get the rest you need
at your country estate.
I'll rest much easier when you
find out who tried to kill me.
The investigation
is well under way.
At the top of my list
is Mary and her lady Lola.
Consider the timing.
I have considered it.
Why would Mary risk
her friend's life that way?
Especially when our experiment
with personal diplomacy
is just beginning.
Mary needs peace
more than I do.
Then who would you have me
focus on?
The English did this to me.
To punish me for daring
to love who I want.
Perhaps they were right.
Perhaps I forgot what it means
to be a queen.
But if I can't be with
who I love,
maybe I can give that gift
to someone else.
(footsteps approaching)
MARY:
Oh, I thought
I might find you here.
Thanking your lucky stars?
Thanking them for what?
You haven't heard?
I got the news in a letter
from Lola today.
Elizabeth is keeping her word.
Your daughter is coming here.
Agatha's coming to France.
Oh.
(gasps)
Gideon,
no, we can't.
I'm sorry. I just, um...
We might be friends,
but our countries
are still enemies.
Mm-hmm.
It's one thing to pretend,
but to let this be real...
Mary.
No.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS PRODUCTIONS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org